# On Coding Bootcamp - Time Management: Tips and Tricks

### **https://kseniaro.medium.com/coding-bootcamp-af5b2cd02e5f**

**I'm** certainly not the first comp sci student to have received a particular set of questions since entering the field. "College is expensive, why don't you just do a bootcamp? I saw someone on YouTube who did a 30 day bootcamp and landed a job at X company for $Y00k a year!" And like many I myself have wondered: what exactly _is_ going on at software engineering bootcamps? This article, titled "Time Management: Tips and Tricks", gives a little bit of insight into the mindset of a Coding Bootcamp student and whats necessary to thrive in the hyper-efficient and sometimes brutal environment.

**One** thing that people attending a bootcamp appear to have in common with college students is the simultaneous failure to take breaks, and failure to keep a schedule. The author heavily stresses the importance of both for actual progress in your learning, something that I believe will be crucial in a Software Engineering course like this one. One aspect of Coding Bootcamp I found surprising is the mentality of "limiting your scope", that is not delving deep into any particular topic. "The goal is not to know in depth any specific technology, but to learn it to the level that you can use it functionally, and to know where to find more information about it." Bootcamps are often portrayed as tedious studies of React or similar technologies when in reality they appear to aim for general competence which can help landing a job. "Keep in mind, you can’t know everything, especially in the tech-world. Technologies are changing all the time , the same as how to use them." This is a pretty different philosophy to some of my previous professors, who have made it a goal to make students "experts" in a given programming language or subject.

**Although** meant for Coding Bootcamp students, I found that this article contained some valuable bits of information for anybody pursuing software engineering as a career in the future.

// sijaric: I really appreciate some of the time management advice that this article had to offer. As someone who wrote her first line of code 12 months ago, and is now completing a CS degree in 1.5 years, I identified with the intesity of coding boothcamps outlined in the article. In particular, I found the author's emphasis on letting go of perfectionism quite reassuring - sometimes we just gotta keep swimming! The mentality aspect in tech communities seems ripe for change and this article is an important part of that solution puzzle.
